.. _qibuild-building-project:

Building a project
==================


Simple build
------------

Let’s assume you only want to compile your project once.

Doing so is easy:

.. code-block:: console

  $ qibuild make foo

Or, to build in release, use:

.. code-block:: console

  $ qibuild make --release foo

Using an IDE
------------

qiBuild is based on CMake, which in turns knows how to generate project files
for many of IDEs : XCode, Eclipse, Visual Studio.

Here we are only dealing with the details for:

* QtCreator on Mac and Linux

* Visual Studio on Windows.

qiBuild is known to work fine with these IDEs, there may be some work to do to
be able to use XCode or Eclipse. Patches and tutorials welcome !

qiBuild and QtCreator
+++++++++++++++++++++

The only thing to remember is that you should not let QtCreator call CMake by
itself the first time.

Use ``qibuild configure`` then ``qibuild make`` to be sure everything works
fine.

Then open the root CMakeLists in qtcreator.

You will be prompted to use a build directory, chose the one that was created
by qibuild.

QtCreator will read the settings from the exising build directory, so
everything should work fine.

Remember to use the same CMake generator in QtCreator and in your configuration
file, if qtcreator asks you to choose one.

qiBuild and Visual Studio
+++++++++++++++++++++++++

When you have run ``qibuild configure``, you will have a .sln file generated in
your build directory.

Your solution should already be properly configured. Please avoid making
changes to the solution file by hand, they will be lost the next time you
change a CMake file or run CMake. To keep your project cross-platform and
sharable with others you are strongly advised to use your CMakeLists.txt to
make any changes to your solution. After each change of your CMakeLists.txt,
run qibuild configure to update your solution file.

.. note:: The .sln generated by CMake is also capable to run CMake to
   re-generate itself. This sadly does not always work, so if you
   experience trouble, it's best to close the project,
   then re-run ``qibuild configure`` by hand


Using Aldebaran packages
-------------------------

See: :ref:`qibuild-using-aldebaran-packages`
