v3.0
-----

General
+++++++

* Tons of bug fixes, massive Python refactoring

* The ``./install-qibuild.sh`` script is gone: its name was misleading,
  and it lead to bad stuff, like:

  * installing in ``/usr/local`` by default on mac (which causes problem on
    a multi-user machine)
  * being hard to know which qibuild version was used

Instead, you should use ``./generate-sourceme.sh`` and patch your
``~/.profile`` to include the generated ``sourceme.sh`` file if you
want to use the latest ``git`` version of ``qibuild``, or just use
``pip`` once ``qibuild`` is published on ``Pypi``

Command line
+++++++++++++

General
~~~~~~~

* Some actions that could only run on *all* projects learned a ``-p,--projects``
  argument. You can now for instance use ``qibuild foreach -p hello -- <cmd>``
  to run ``<cmd>`` on the ``hello`` project and its dependencies

* It is now impossible to have nested worktrees.

  * The ``--force`` option is gone
  * ``qibuild init``, ``qisrc init``, will only run if the working
    directory is empty

* ``qibuild deploy`` no longer strips the debug symbols by default. Use
  ``--split-debug`` to do so.

qisrc
~~~~~

* After ``qisrc init``, the projects under code review now
  end up with only one remote instead of two.
* ``qisrc init`` learned ``--groups`` to only clone some repositories
  of a project
* ``qisrc sync`` now always clones the missing projects (even when not using
  ``-a``)
* ``qisrc sync`` now handles repositories renames
* ``qisrc sync`` logic changed to be a bit more reliable and fail less often
* ``qisrc foreach`` learned ``--all``, to run on every projects (previously
  it could only run on git projects)
* add ``qisrc manifest`` to manage the manifest used in a given worktree.
* ``qisrc init`` can now only be used once. To add a new manifest, run
  ``qisrc manifest --add name url``. This makes it possible to change the groups,
  too
* ``qisrc init --no-review`` is gone, this was seldom used anyway
* ``qisrc sync`` learned ``--build-deps``  to pull the build dependencies
* Since this option clashes with other qibuild option, you should now use
  ``qibuild configure --no-runtime`` or ``qibuild configure --build-deps-only``
  instead of ``qibuild configure --build-deps``

* Manifests are now cloned in ``.qi/manifests``, making it possible to
  have code review on manifests repositories too

* Syntax of the ``manifests.xml`` changed:

.. code-block:: xml

    <!-- old -->
    <manifest>
      <remote name="origin" fetch="git@example.com"
              review="http://gerrit:8080" />
      <project name="libfoo.git"
               path="lib/libfoo"
               revision="next"
               review="true" />
    </manifest>

.. code-block:: xml

    <!-- new -->
    <manifest>
      <remote name="origin" url="git@example.com" />
      <remote name="gerrit" url="ssh://gerrit:29418/" review="true" />

      <repo src="lib/libfoo" default_branch="next" remote="gerrit" />
    </manifest>

* The gerrit ssh port is now no longer hard-coded, and you
  should specify the ``ssh`` url, not the ``http`` url.
* The ``next`` branch of the repo in ``lib/libfoo``
  will track ``ssh://<username>@gerrit:29418/libfoo.git`` instead of
  ``git@example.com:libfoo.git``. This makes it possible to use gerrit only,
  without any mirror, and it also means you don't have to wait for the
  gerrit synchronization, which is hepful when using ``qisrc`` on a
  buildfarm plugged to gerrit.
* The default manifest is now called ``manifest.xml`` instead of ``default.xml`` to
  ease the transition.

* ``qisrc`` profiles are gone, use groups instead. Here's how you can make
  it possible to only clone 2 of the 3 repositories declared in the manifest:

.. code-block:: xml

  <!-- in qibuild2 -->

  <!-- manifest/default.xml -->

    <manifest>
      <project name="foo.git" />
      <manifest url="bar.xml" />
    </manifest>

  <!-- manifest/bar.xml -->
    <manifest>
      <project name="bar.git" />
      <project name="libbar.git" />
    </manifest>

Used with ``--profile bar``


.. code-block:: xml

  <!--in qibuild3 -->

    <manifest>
      <repo name="foo.git" />
      <repo name="bar.git" />
      <repo name="libbar.git" />

      <groups>
        <group name="bar">
          <project name="bar.git" />
          <project name="libbar.git" />
        </group>
      </groups>
    </manifest>

Used with ``--group bar``

qibuild
~~~~~~~

* ``qibuild`` now uses ``CMake`` code from the worktree. This makes it possible
  to use a Python command line version ``qibuild`` different of the ``qibuild/cmake``
  code.
* ``qibuild init -c`` is deprecated, use ``qitoolchain set-default`` instead
* ``qibuild init --interactive`` is deprecated, use ``qibuild config --wizard`` instead
* ``qibuild test`` learned ``--build-first``
* Add ``qibuild run``
* Add ``qibuild find``

* Syntax of ``qiproject.xml`` changed:

.. code-block:: xml

    <!-- old -->
    <project name="foo">
      <depends runtime="true" names="bar" />
    </project>

.. code-block:: xml

    <!-- new -->
    <project version="3" >
      <qibuild name="foo">
        <depends runtime="true" names="bar" />
      </qibuild>

    </project>

This is more consistent, and helps solving nasty bugs when using nested
qibuild projects.

qitoolchain
~~~~~~~~~~~

* Add ``qitoolchain set-default``

qilinguist
~~~~~~~~~~~

* ``qilinguist`` can now be called without any project name
* Add ``qilinguist list``

qidoc
~~~~~~

* Now usable without a "templates" repository
* Can choose the project to be at the root of the generated doc
* Now only generates files in <project>/build-doc
* New commands: ``qidoc clean``, ``qidoc install``

* Syntax of ``qiproject.xml`` changed:

.. code-block:: xml

    <!-- old -->
    <! -- in foo/qiproject.xml -->
    <project>
      <sphinxdoc src="doc" name="foo-doc" />
    </project>

.. code-block:: xml

    <!-- new -->
    <! -- in foo/qiproject.xml -->
    <project version="3" >
      <project src="doc" />
    </project>

    <! -- in foo/doc/qiproject.xml -->
    <project version="3" >
      <qidoc type="sphinx" name="foo-doc" />
    </project>


CMake
+++++

* MacOS: use rpath: libraries use an ``@rpath`` based directory for the default
  installed name. Executables contain a rpath pointing to the root of the
  install directory.
* Linux shared libraries are linked with a RPATH set to ``$ORIGIN/../lib``
  by default, as it was done for executables.

