
v3.11
=====

qibuild
-------

* Fix using ``qibuild make-host-tools`` when no project is specified
* Implement ``qibuild make-host-tools --all``
* ``qibuild configure``: fix setting flags containing ``=``, such as
  ``qibuild configure -DCMAKE_CXX_FLAGS="-std=gnu++11"``
* ``qibuild configure``: set ``QI_VIRTUALENV_PATH`` to the virtualenv path that
  has been created by ``qipy bootstrap``. This is useful if you want to call
  Python code from C++.
* Fix using ``qibuild clean`` in some corner cases
* Restore build directory paths when using a build prefix.

  * Before 3.0:
    ``<prefix>/<build-dir>/project>``
  * From 3.8 to 3.10:
    ``<prefix>/<project>/<build-dir>``
  * In 3.11:
    ``<prefix>/<build-dir>/project>``

* Support setting arbitrary environment variables in ``~/.config/qi/qibuild.xml``.
  Here's an example of a build configuration using ``clang``

  .. code-block:: xml

      <qibuild>
        <config name="clang">
          <env>
            <var name="CC">clang</var>
            <var name="CXX">clang++</var>
          </env>
        </config>
      </qibuild>

* ``qibuild package``: add ``--standalone`` option. This generates a
  package containing the runtime components and all the runtime dependencies.
  Useful to redistribute compiled binaries.

* ``qibuild package``: add ``--breakpad`` option. This generates a
  symbols archive to be used with ``breakpad``.

* Using ``qibuild set-host-config`` twice with different configuration names
  lead to undefined behavior.

* Fix using ``qibuild run`` in some corner cases.

* Always generate a ``share/qi/path.conf`` during installation.
  (This is required by ``libqi``)

* When reading ``~/.config/qi/qibuild.xml``, prepend contents of
  ``<env path="..."/>`` *after* launching bat file.

* Using ``qibuild set-host-config`` twice with different configuration names
  lead to undefined behavior.

* ``qibuild config --wizard``: fix infinite loop when asking for
  ``QtCreator`` application path

qidoc
-----

* ``qidoc install``: Add ``--clean`` to clean the destdir before installing doc
  projects
* ``qidoc build``: Forward ``--pdb`` option to ``Sphinx``

qisrc
-----

* ``qisrc list``: add ``--group`` argument to list projects belonging
  to the given group(s).
* ``qisrc sync``: fix crash in some corner cases
* ``qisrc init``: add ``--all`` option to ignore the default group and clone
  all the repositories defined in the manifest.

* Remove the project options in ``qisrc snapshot``. They were not used and
  prevented passing the snapshot path.

* Warn when using ``qisrc foreach --group <group name>`` and the group
  is not currently in use
* ``qisrc.git.Git.get_log``: fix git log command

qitest
------

* Fix test names generated by ``qitest collect``

  * Old: ``basename_project``
  * New: ``project.subfolder.basename``

* Implement ``qitest run --no-capture``. (Useful when you want the
  output of the tests to be shown as they run, or when your test command
  requires a ``tty`` as ``stdout``)
* Fix using ``qitest run --coverage`` from a build worktree
* Implement ``qitest run --last-failed`` to re-run previously failing tests
* Implement ``qitest run --exclude`` to specify pattern of test name to exclude from the run
* Implement ``qitest run --ignore-timeouts`` to ignore test timeouts set from CMake code.

* ``qitest run --coverage``: also generate HTML output (requires ``gcovr >= 3.2``)
* ``qitest run --coverage``: add ``--coverage-output-dir`` option to set coverage output
  directory
* ``qitest run``: add ``--test-output-dir`` option to set test output
  directory (``--root-output-directory`` is now deprecated)

qitoolchain
------------

* Support using feeds as git URLs. (See :ref:`qitoolchain-tutorial` for more info)

cmake
-----

* Using ``qi_stage_lib(foo CUSTOM_CODE ..)`` did not generate
  installed ``foo-config.cmake`` correctly
* ``qi_install``: use ``USE_SOURCE_PERMISSIONS`` when installing directories
