v3.9
====

qibuild
-------

* Support host tools when cross-compiling. (See :ref:`qibuild-host-tools`)

* Fix setting ``PYTHONHOME`` on Mac.

* Add ``qibuild info`` to display information about a qibuild project
* Add ``qibuild list-profiles``

* ``qibuid run``:

  * Fix running arbitrary commands
  * Ask when several matching binaries are found instead of raising
  * Use ``os.execve`` to better handle ``ctrl-c``

* ``qibuid add-config``: preserve environment settings

* ``qibuid install, qibuid deploy``: add ``--no-packages``. This makes it
  possible to install or deploy only the projects, ignoring the packages in
  the toolchain
* ``qibuid install, qibuid deploy``: fix bug when installing test component.

* ``qibuid wizard``: do not prompt for a toolchain to use by default, but for a
  build config

* ``qibuid package``: fix using ``--release``

* Check top ``CMakeLists.txt`` file for correctness

qilinguist
-----------

* Install ``.confintl`` files too

qipkg
-----

* ``qipkg make-package`` now checks the package for correctness first.
  You can use ``qipkg make-package --force`` to bypass the checks
* Add ``qipkg validate-package`` to check if a package is compliant with QA
* Add ``qipkg release-package`` to obfuscate Python code from the package
* ``qipkg deploy-package``: do not try to remove non installed applications

qipy
----

* ``qipy bootstrap`` : read ``requirements.txt`` to install dependencies
  inside the virtualenv.
* ``qipy list``: sort projects by name

qisrc
-----

* Parallelize ``qisrc sync``. By default, use as many threads as
  the number of CPUs. You can use ``qisrc sync -j<n>`` to change the
  number of threads used.
* Fix using ``qisrc create`` outside a worktree
* ``qisrc create``: fix crash when output dir is inside template path
* ``qisrc status``: add option ``-S``/``--short`` to display status only for
  dirty projects
* ``qisrc list``: fix specifying a pattern
* ``qisrc checkout``: fix return code when checkout fails
* ``qisrc push``: always notify the maintainer

qisys
-----

* ``qisys.archive``: add support for symlinks in zips.

qitest
------

* ``qitest run``: implement ``--build-prefix``
* Add ``qitest collect`` : this makes it possible to run Python tests with
  ``qitest``.

qitoolchain
-----------

* ``qitoolchain remove``: do not silently update build configurations

cmake
-----

* Minimal required version is now CMake 2.8.12. This means Ubuntu 12.04 is
  no longer supported, please upgrade to Ubuntu 14.04 or later
* if ``qi_swig_wrap_python`` or ``qi_swig_wrap_java`` is used and swig is not
  found, trigger an error instead of a warning
* start next development
* Don't create test helpers if QI_WITH_TESTS is OFF
* cmake: find modules in ``qibuild/cmake/modules`` *after* the ones in the
  toolchain packages
* ``qi_stage_bin``: create install rule for ``-config.cmake`` file
* Add ``qi_create_gmock`` to create tests using ``gmock`` library.
* Add ``qi_add_bin_sdk``
* ``qi_sanitize_compile_flags``:

  * disable MSVC warnings about DLL interface and template usage.
  * Add ``/bigobj`` for MSVC 64 bits

* Modules:

  * Add ``COREFOUNDATION``
  * Add ``DBGHELP``, ``DIA_SDK``, ``IMAGEHLP``, ``WS2``
  * Fix ``PTHREAD`` finder for 64 bits on windows
